There are hundreds of books in this library, and we asked Professor Jackson here to help us understand the context of the book.
So I'm pleased to introduce Professor Jackson.
Okay, first of all, did everyone get the hand?
There is a door.
that they all break them down.
And I'd like to thank the Boston Library Institute and Laura Mark for the opportunity to speak to us for more than an opportunity to take the pressure of Martin Luther King and John Adams.
I have lost sight of the irony of talking them up under the auspices of an institution that has officially disproved
I look forward to sharing the preliminary results of my investigation, indeed in sharing the experience of discovery, for the investigation did not look quite as I had expected it to.
I knew that Adams would be good, but I didn't quite know which he would be good.
There will be time for questions at the end, but when I'm in the position that you're in at the moment, I often find no questions arise from the speaker and by the time the speaker is through our philosophy.
So I'm going to stop every 10 minutes or thereabouts just to see if your questions are on the bit that I just finished.
So we can consider that time tick-lock with question time at the end, if need be.
It is not that Adams' activity as an annotator was overlooked or hushed up till now, on the contrary.
As many of you know, Adams himself intended that his extensive library should be kept intact and continue in use, and although his original plan for it did not work out, later provisions for the collection respected his intent.
The collection has been properly catalogued and cared for according to the standards of the day, which means that over time it has to be recatalogued and rehoused, and it is even now being recatalogued with you.
It has attracted an unusual amount of quality attention.
John Adams loved his book.
Recognizing that fact, my author of historians have frequently turned to his biography for evidence about the course of his ideas, and to the annotated books particularly for clarification of his views and opinions on political issues.
The Marginaliole was particularly well-offord by Jotan Harashki, the curator of the collection of the Boston Public for many years, who first of all wrote a serious article that presented Adams' notes on the first title, and then in 1952 published his book, John Adams and the Prophet's Progress.
With apologies to those of you who are already familiar with Adams' library, and I'm sure there are many of you here, I'm going to begin by offering microscopic samples from the thousands of pithy content notes that Adams wrote in it was.
I have selected how it doesn't almost take random, you will find it on the handout.
For convenience sake, all are quoted from Hiraschi's book.
On the other side of the hand are the zeroes of the pages, or photo, zero-color gems, the pages that include the last two notes, this image being likewise available in a published source, Joseph Ellis' Passionate Stage.
After I had sent in the title of this talk, I discovered that Ellis had anticipated me, and now as well,
He described Adams as typically opposition throughout his life.
A man who instinctively mobilized his mental resources, quote, in opposition to established conventions, personal enemy, or fashionable ideas.
He was only comfortable with dialogue and he was inviterate with the dialogue to perform an argument.
The first number, I'm just going to walk you through the handout.
The first thing occurred in the novel was copy of an essay by the early 18th century English deist Henry Simmons, Laura Bollinger.
Bollinger, who had formerly learned about an earlier generation, Ralph Kudmer and his famous defense of the Christian faith.
In the opening pages of his essay, Bollinger lethally exposed a serious flaw in Kudmer's argument.
His words are absurd and impertinent vanity.
mainly that words have assumed that divine and human intelligence were the same in kind.
Relishing the controversy that was skeptical about both parties, Adams was quick to notice that after a digression of vanity, Bollingbroke carelessly made the same mistakes himself when he set out his own proof of the existence of both triumphantly declaring that
Since there must have been something from eternity because there is something now, the eternal being must be an intelligent being because there is intelligence now.
The divine intelligence is here argued from human intelligence.
Are they of the state counted?
Or has the floor made the same loader with colors?
The eternal intelligence is internally different from the degree of man who lived from earth.
but we can conceive of them such as us.
While I catch his bottom work out in inconsistency, this true remark also shows that Adams was reading closely his character.
Payment broke a compliment of taking him seriously even though his position on religion was far from out of his own.
And the bottom work's social status was a constant irritant, as you may see from the mock reverence toward my lord.
From a previous repeated refrain, this had another
Next comes a pair known from Rousseau's discourse on inequality.
Rousseau was an even less congenial figure than Bollinger, for Adams considered Rousseau to be A. preposterously vain, B. one of the primers of the French Revolution.
This was not a singular opinion there or now.
Adams' comfort of the discourse is hostile and often sarcastic in tone, but it is still not completely dismissed.
I'm impressed by the effort that was manifestly made to be giving Rousseau his duty.
Comparing the savage state of the state of civil addiction, for example, Rousseau laterally proposed that while the savage state was morally neutral, the civilized society did its more license and virtues.
One years upon one years, that was your son, paradox upon paradox, what astonishing fugacity had Mr. Rousseau.
Yet, the gentleman has with his affectation of singularity made then, discontented with superstition and tyranny.
However, suspect his proposition then was so deserved credit for having disturbed the status, quote,
But as Rousseau proceeds to develop this idea made maintaining that savages are not bad, precisely because they don't want what it is to be good, or it is neither the development of their understanding or the term of the law, but the calmness of their passions and their ignorance of life that prevents them from doing ill.
How does simply laugh at it?
Calmness of the passions of savages.
Here I don't cry, I'll read this.
Ha ha ha.
His capacity for ridicule and abuse is still more apparent in response to a frivolous remark to Dalmer in a letter to Frederick Grace.
Dalmer was just recycling his old joke, but it involved disrespect to the creator.
And it is Dalmer.
He also said concerning the confusion of the seers taught by ancient astrology that had he been present when God created the world, he could have given him so good advice.
Now, I sometimes tend to believe that God was at least as much unique advice when he created mold as when he created physics.
Adam said, Thou love, sleep, tick, ant, walk, or whatever vermin thou are, with this dupendous universe made it adjusted to give you money, sleep, or digestion.
It's worth observing that even in an extreme case that would be the reason for the Nigerians not merely calling the author name, didn't just scribble idiots in the martyrs.
The last two notes from Mary Wollstonecraft, historical moral view of the French Revolution, most densely annotated of all books in Adam's library.
Here we see again that we have seen this whole disagreement outweighing approval, but outweighing disagreement in the efforts to be fair and accurate.
This is probably true, as we'll say, in the margin of approval.
Or, this is very exact.
Or, there is wisdom there.
Or, I wish this was true.
Overall, he found a whole photograph.
Too much of an idealist in our view of our family in this society.
Therefore, it needed correction by a more experienced person.
but there's no sense of balance for her views.
Her book was published in 1794, before the revolution had run its force, before the Napoleonic War.
She observed, for instance, that in the early years of the revolution, the press created divisions by ridiculing prominent things.
It would have been easy for the assembly to have passed a decree to respect the lives, she remarked.
It would become their passion for liberty that they were unable to discriminate between a licentious use of that important invention, the press, and its real utility.
How it's demurred.
If in any nation there is a single agreement between a license and a freedom of press, not the English, nor the American law certainly, not a government can do it and the people will not.
On the other hand, he seems pleased to find their views coincide among the bank.
Walt Stonecraft advises that, after the regular government, the plan of a new constitution ought to be immediately formed and present it to the citizens for their acceptance.
And Adam's second.
Now they preached this doctrine a whole year in Congress in 1775 and 1776,
Before I could prevent the land, I passed my resolution of the 15th of May, 1776, recommending that message to the people of the state.
So, here we have a few representative notes.
Six of thousands.
What do we see when we focus on this microscope?
How?
Modern readers are likely to be struck by the idiosyncrasies we have.
The way it conveys the personality of honest John Adams.
Most of us don't write a book.
Even if we do, we do not write a book, because we read Hethi, Croningen, a great student of disease.
I think that's fair to say.
Even if we do, we don't write a book.
Some scholars say we do not even read like a book anymore.
Karen's development of the unattended reader was far from doubtful.
Step-by-step, point-by-step, point-by-step, point-by-step, point-by-step, point-by-step, point-by-step, point-by-step, point-by-step, point-by-step, point-by-step, point-by-step, point-by-step, point-by-step, point-by-step, point-by-step, point-by-step, point-by-step, point-by-step, point-by-step, point-by-step, point-by-step, point-by-step, point-by-step, point-by-step, point-by-step, point-by-step, point-by-step, point-by-step, point-by-step, point-by-step, point-by-step, point-by-step, point-by-step, point-by-step,
Because Martin loves dramatizing the reading experience, we feel ourselves troubled when he laughs at Rousseau and rails down there.
We are likely to admit to infer that Adam let himself go when he commuted alone with his wife, and that his undarted notes gave him away, revealing his essentially common presence.
They confirm our image of exceptional mass.
Adam is a fourth wall of exceptional mass.
but he was also a man of his age and his behavior in all areas of life remained within the boundary of acceptance before that age if we look more closely at his practice of meditation and if we are able to see it from a historical perspective rather than in the context of our own assumptions and practices we may find we have to revise our image of him or our interpretation of the
On the basis of a recent study of 2,000 books containing notes made by Adam's contemporaries, I can say something about common practices and special cases.
They provide a context, reveal the options that were open to Adam when he sat down with a book hand in hand.
I shall try to balance generalizations with particular examples, then I shall return to Adam's book and take a second look at the notes in the south.
hey how are we doing does anyone have questions so far i just had one it's a matter of john adams was a public man by any definition and yet these were sort of described about when he wrote them
have you any idea if you had any idea that somebody would later read them to leave them from posterity with the intention being read say by his son or grandson or in his family did everyone have a question um in the background you heard the question yes um you are very good question and i will come to it
It's a rather meandering route.
Customs related to book ownership and reading appear to have been stapled in the English-speaking world throughout the century until the first quarter or so of the 90s.
Ownership conferred aesthetic privileges are affected by differences of class, sex, or nationality.
So I make no apology to the fact that my survey consisted of British readers, but in a noun-ish spirit of fair play, I welcome opposing views and others.
The first of these privileges was the right-to-right innumerable.
Now, this is contemporary that it was routinely as a special occasion, so I'm going to start with one and proceed to the item.
Several forms of routine use, which may have appeared to read a little time, but its duties persist to this day.
They come as a general topic of study, collection management, and upgrading.
For a book goes in a studious way, where the reader hopes to absorb some of the contents and expects to refer to the book again, but perhaps never again to read through the book.
Several conventional strategies include underlining, headings, cross-references, and personal indexes.
Underlining highlights significant passages so that they stand out on a second-regional gimmick.
Heading, or head, identifies foreign topics and changes of topic page by page or section by section.
Cross-references and margins are comparable patented in a single or in other books to which the owner has access, usually in the same collection.
Personal index is commonly kept to the back of the book and commonly in page order, that is, this is a list of words that you write.
Subjects are listed as a turnout in the course of reading and all sorted into alphabetical order.
So these enable the reader to recover important passages later on.
Senes had the interest of new economies, arguably more such as made myths of these kinds in the book itself, than on separate pages of a notebook for a context.
Because, consulting a notebook would only lead you back to the book anyway, and before that you have to put the relevant notebook, whereas the synodal of the book itself is straight there.
Friday the right book is not likely to become a problem until the collection reaches that critical time at which the brain of the collector loses track of what it is.
But very few readers at Adam's time were in that position.
I don't know what the maximum library to brain ratio is.
There must be many variables.
At the end of the lifetime of collecting afternoon over 3,000 volume was quite, I think quite a valuable number.
Jackson had more than twice as many, but seemed not to have known his book so well.
An interesting example of a studious reader, entirely normally misuseable, but unusual for the steal of his collection, was the London lawyer Francis Hartway, who was about six years younger than him, and whose heavily annotated collection law manuscript was purchased for the nation in 1813 at a cost of 8,000 pounds.
When the husband comes to the beginning of purchase, the bookseller testified that marginal loans such as hard-rated might in 1813 increases.
Increased the market value of the book many times, and this is what we say.
Votes worth three innings, I have known, produced 200 under these circumstances.
And books worth four or five shillings touching 40 pounds under the same circumstances.
Harbrain's professional library is of special value because it displays the accumulating learning of the library.
It allows the user to deploy the whole collection, and partly through regular upgrading.
As new statutes were introduced in the UK that affected the interpretation of the law, Harbrain added notes about them to his books to keep them up to date.
This was an oral practice for owners of many categories of the book, especially reference books.
It was and remains an awful deficient process.
Where a book proves to be inaccurate or deficient, the owner couldn't prove it and make up for its shortcomings by any corrections and adding new matters.
Horace Walpole, who was pretty years out of this week, was writing to his book,
names of the authors of the press would be their sort of discretion.
So R.S.
Walpole's copy with his identification, he is a recurrent theme of the catalog of the Walpole Library in Birmingham.
These corrections and innovations would naturally be made in ink to last, as were Adams's and most of the eye margin in the of all time that I have seen from this period.
the lawyer, held with some of his summative books in the spirit of what I call collection management.
According to the cover of the book, its problems, its ownership, and notable features, such as Thorpe by the Midrash of Baths, many collectors still do this sort of thing, in spite of their athletic pressures to leave the gate at its feet.
All these practices are so commonplace in the motor box, as we all have seen them.
Public practices of the period, however, culminated as humans, with the result that a volume that with these features may seem to us more extraordinary than it really should.
Because books were relatively scarce and highly valuable, because nobody could possibly own all the books he or she might have wanted,
And because there were no public libraries in our instance of the term, since a library like this, large collections available to all without cost, books tended to circulate among groups of readers.
Here, in turn, encouraged countless of laughs in later generations when books were cheaper and more accessible.
When they finished the book, readers sometimes controlled by all the general ones.
on the front or back slide.
This is at a moment, to be able to thumbs up or thumbs down, but summarise the reader's opinion, forms of memorandum, who will stand as a guide on all the way to life.
Montaigne, who had adopted this practice himself and recommended it in an essay on books, said even if it's to save itself trouble when you're reading.
Even so you would do it for yourself.
In the 18th century, the general note seems to have acquired the added purpose of being an introduction for other readings.
So as it will circulate, it's circulated with a general endorsement or warning.
How did this move all to look out?
Well, one of the two, rather than the first note, is the general summing up.
I especially like the one in the audience of inquiries concerning political justice, which I saw since I started this morning.
This book exceeds and delivered intentional falsehood of what I have heard of chariotic, chariotic, chariotic, judgmental, and I can tell you enough to have it.
It has become the universal library.
The books studied long.
It's the nearest problem of treason that I've made.
Godwin has studied longer to see how much like the truth he could dress alive.
And Toronto Adams' lifetime readers might also pick up their things to copy extracts or to do what they refer to as illustrating their books.
extracting it understandable enough a book comes your way for a short time perhaps unknown for a circulating library often friend you want to keep a record of striking and potentially useful passages so you copied them out you might develop another book or a common case book to this purpose that was in fact adam's choice but other readers used the blank slides of books on similar subjects to store and
It's not a bad planning system and we ourselves may be acting on these impulses when we drop relevant tippings or xeroxes into our books for safe keeping, receiveting, cookbooks, obituaries into works by the now-dead authors and so on.
Extracting makes sense to me.
The illustration I had probably for a long time, although it too was a widespread activity.
I have conducted extensive research on the subject, and my hunch is that until about 1790, verbal illustration, not pictorial, was done in the book hall.
And this usage, illustration by means of work, continues to lie about shifted to pictorial.
That's all that old legal and historical works on their title pages describe themselves as illustrations.
by parallel passages from comparable works, illustrated by parallel passages or by select remarks of the best commentators.
With such models before them, readers concocted their own illustrated works, copying bits taken from other books to clarify or illuminate the text.
But since they were not engaged in professional enterprises governed by the conventions of scholarship and subject to public scrutiny, these readers were free to make connections as they saw fit.
In fact, they had a license to free associate and that is what some of them did.
The links may well turn out to be backlink to an outside.
You know, what is this doing in here?
But they must be meaningful in some way to the person who made them.
And to modern researchers, they offer valuable evidence not only of the contents of the reader's mind, which is what the reader thought in reading this passage, but also the way that mind worked.
um although this practice i think is now practically extinct the biographer phyllisia hennon who died in 1835 did not have to explain what he meant when he wrote in 1836 that she used quote to illustrate her favorite books with the thoughts excited by their career and with such parallel passages from other writers of war on the stage
He seems to have followed a kindness issue about, quote again, if one of her intimate friends lent her a book which she chanced to adopt, he was short-returned, thus enriched.
The best example I know of his sort of working period is Hester Piozzi, Samuel Dawson's friend, again six years younger than Alice, who in the early 90th century made gifts to several friends,
a volume that she had customized for them in this way, combining nuggets of information from others in her library with reminiscences, anecdotes, and jokes of her own, so that the recipients would have the impression of reading the book with her and in her way.
I wish that I had time to illustrate this talk myself and a few of her fresh and funny observations, but you will just have to take my word from me that she is very good company.
Now, we've already passed from everyday routine to special occasions.
For many readers, the mindset we illustrate of reading one text to bear on another may have been a permanent part of the reading experience, but for most of them,
The illustration was the exception rather than the rule.
You choose the books that you graduate.
Hester Piozzi did not give all her books for the illustration treatment, but made the effort now to get for the sake of friends.
Even as Felicia Hemmings illustrated only select favorites among the books that came her way.
So, questions on the... Yes?
Are you data cross-references widely?
Not very much.
Actually, I'm not probably the best person to ask.
Oh, I'm sorry.
Right.
Did Adam's cross-reference his library?
Not so far as I can see very much.
But you will really have to wait for the results of the work that Laura and her team are doing, to be sure.
Not in one that I've seen.
Thanks for the Warren.
I'll carry on.
Today we tend to assume that the deviant minority who write a book do it all the time because they can't talk.
It's a habit.
You know, habit is a bad word, it's by definition bad.
My survey of romantic readers, rather from a surprise, suggests that for them the opposite was true.
The majority of book owners wrote those books.
But they did so only occasionally.
for a particular reason.
It is certainly true about us.
While we justify being expressed by the annotated books, we have to remember that the only hundred volumes out of over 3,000 are recorded as containing real notes in his hand.
In every case, I'd like to know what circumstances led him to choose that book and know another.
We think that Adams loved his books and that he expressed his love, as some people do, by calling them.
His behavior is entirely in keeping with standards of the time.
Many readers of the 18th and 19th centuries testified to the pleasures of conversing with their books as well as women in companions.
Erasmus, for example, teased a correspondent who thought that he was his best friend by referring affectionately to a group of intimate friends with whom he said, I either indulge in some delightful musings or else listen to their whisper, speaking to them as freely as to myself.
Of course, the friend turned out to be his boss.
But a ton of the writing in books was unremarkable behavior.
Some readers left a record of these conversations, though I had yet to encounter any reader who did it indiscriminately.
Coleridge is the best human of the type.
In one book he memorably wrote, a book I value, I reason and fall with, as of myself, in my reason.
But Coleridge is a person for morality.
How about John Horne Took, a grammarian and gadfly, born just a year later than Adams, whose tone in marginale is the first match I have found to his.
Like Adams, Took would scrutinize and offer his argument to point by point and take it apart.
He could exercise his mind while reading and gradually formulate his own ideas on the subject of the days.
Here, for example, is a single sentence
from his friend Joseph's priestly dispositions relating to matter and spirit, who it took's interjections, so this is priestly.
To a wholeness conclusion of which divine entertainer rebellion is not great.
They refund from a former notion of spirit, making it in the strictness of the sense of the term and the immaterial thing without extension.
consider these terms as seeing as they are not incompatible.
Like Adams, Toad could be mocking and abusive.
With his puppy on the French's own regular sheet of friends, he called them in the birth, idiots, and soft, and laughed at him, Marty, howl, howl, howl, howl.
He rose as though he were addressing the author directly, challenging his assertions, talking back.
So did other readers through all points of the social and political compass.
Somebody named W. Davis Tinker, possibly a Methodist, can be traced through the marginalia fighting like a pit bull with a gentle Quaker offer to account with all religious persecution, religion and politics being natural topics of controversy.
Just as the duke class can be seen expressing interest, approval, or disapproval of various passages in the world of Benjamin Franklin.
These forms of readerly reaction are not unknown today, though they are less common and less acceptable than they used to be.
One final example will introduce an unusual variant and expose a fundamental difference between the circumstances of readers in Adams' time and in others.
Like Tooth, this reader, whom we see at work in several heavily outdated books, also sounds like Adams much of the time.
In a copy of Bacon's essay,
He retorts sharply, he who has few things to desire cannot have many things to fear.
When Macon notes that kings past and present for doerphies in eunuchs, he says, because kings do it, is it wisdom?
In Bishop Watson's Apology to the Bible, a refutation of pain made to reason, he declares,
I have read this book with attention and find that the bishop has only hurt Payne's heel while Payne has broken his head.
The bishop has now answered one of Payne's grand objections.
To Sir Joshua Reynolds' assertion that where the representative arts are concerned, there is a rule obtained out of general nature to contradict which is to fall into deformity, he objects, what is general nature?
Is there such a thing?
Strictly speaking, all knowledge is particular.
As in the case of Adam, is this reader's reason argument?
Very, no.
May he come to earth with unworth a strong feeling.
Well, I'm quoting.
Maybe you've already guessed who this is.
Well, I think this will give it to you.
The inquiry in England is not whether a man has talents and genius.
He said about whether he is passive and polite in a virtue of that.
and obedient to nobleman's opinions in arts and science.
If he is, he is a good man.
If not, he must be starved.
So by now you probably fall onto the identity of this belligerent writer, he is William Blake.
Blake's marginally are especially interesting because although they appear to be spontaneous expressions of annoyance, indignation, anger, contempt, etc., sometimes occasionally of warmth and grievous as well,
The internal evidence revealed that all the inexpensively amateur notes were carefully prepared, with a clear personal articulation in the adherence to his song about him.
Blake Martinelli also understood an alternative form of publication, one that he could control every step of the way.
He did not have to play by the rules of public controversy,
negotiate with publishers, or suffer the insults of reviewers.
He put his case in the margins of his books, and he lent the books to like-minded friends.
He defiantly put his name on the title pages alongside the names of the other authors.
So, about Reynolds' titles, for instance, in an opposite of Francis P's portrait, he wrote this man.
This is the opinion of Will Blake.
The proof of this opinion are given in the following notes.
Though he may be an extreme case, Blake was not alone in using marginalia in the 18th century.
And his example brings home to us vital differences between that time and this, in terms of attitude towards books and marginalia.
All readers of the period value books as durable objects.
At some level of consciousness, they knew their books would outlive them.
So they were.
Furthermore, they took it for granted that other people would read them.
Therefore, no marginality of this period can have been written in security and privacy.
Or, to put it another way, all were written in anticipation of audience.
Lake wrote in his copy of Lavender's Aphorisms on Man,
I hope no one will call what I have written, cavalry, for I write from the warmth of my heart and cannot resist the impulse to rectify what I think wrong in a book I love so much and approve so generally.
On the title page, he circled their two names.
This is as close as I can come to the open.
On the title page, he circled their two names, Lavender and Blaise.
By way of the clearing book, it's a lot for the book.
already expressed.
When Blake wrote no one, he was surely thinking of the deserving few to whom he might lend them all.
He hoped none of them would misunderstand the motives of his criticism, but possibly also of the unknown readers down through the years to whom his precious book might disherits.
Thinking back, we can see that in one way or another, all the readers whose methods I have described, had it gone last prospect of knowledge.
Francis Hargrave, painstakingly acquired professional knowledge, would go to benefit some other lawyer.
Walpole's books would ensure that insider information about men and women at this time was all lost.
Felicia Hemingway's friends and admirers would treasure her comments on books from their own collection and pass them on to her descendants.
Hester Piazzi could display her active kindness and her remarkable reign of interest in perpetuity through her specially concocted presence.
So it was Joel Evans.
He never bought a book, but it became instantly a part of the household library.
When he was almost 19, he bequeathed the collection, notes and all, to a public institution, reserving only a small number of books that he had for his profession, which he gave us a name to me.
And those, too, were added to the bequest in the long run.
There were, as far as he was concerned, no secrets from his marginality, and the public circulation of his books could do his posthumous reputation no damage.
Understanding these circumstances, if we look again at some of the notes on the handout, we see them rather differently.
For once in a fifth can he have made the remarkable works of the elephant's process of that.
Why did he go to the trouble of spelling out his objection to the impiety of Dalmat?
And why should he have needed to tell himself about the resolution of May 1776?
there must be a third party involved in the Indian Greek.
It seems that when Adams wrote those notes, he was more or less deliberately leaving a record of his opinions on matters about which his opinions might have been, or might come to be, misunderstood.
At first, he can have expected only that chosen friends and members of the family, his direct descendants, would have access to the view expressed in his martini.
But after the election was president, he may have
that they would find a wider comment.
Indeed, he thought to it that they should do so.
He had austerity in mind.
Allons had known that they had come down to us.
There is this other fact.
Allons had known that they had come down to us were subject to editorial selection.
If you look at the other side of the handout, the photograph of that book from the French Revolution, you will see
how densely common in the pages of Alice's chosen books might be.
But you will also see some notes not recorded by Arash, specifically only on page 402.
Press, epigrams, awkward figures, drastic gains, satyrs, and checks.
It will be made at a different time from the long one.
You will see that there is a log in either hand, and that Adams uses a log in the word jests, or if you have a thing, that he does not do after on the same page.
Horashti never claimed, so the notes were written on different occasions, Horashti never claimed that his presentation of Adams was never too exhaustive.
Indeed, he frequently describes books as containing, besides the interesting notes, quote, repetition of names, keywords, and short sentences that he eventually had deliberately suppressed.
The very brief notes obviously did not fall into the category of studious, sorry, obviously do fall into the category of studious note-taking.
And they typically represent, this is what I find rather interesting, a first income with the work.
when the reader's effort is concentrated on following the authors, meaning not challenging them.
So you see the indication that in some cases, at least, the challenging notes are done on rereadings.
It's not his first thoughts.
They're not printed, they're not original, they do not contribute much to our understanding of fandom that the champion has to, so they're set aside.
But when we see him, we realize that there is more of the story of Alan's engaging with his book than an occasional lover's quarrel.
Indeed, we realize that there is a story with plot development, not a static account of a sexual character and habitual behavior.
Examining more books from Adam's library, we have carried in line the options available to him in the amount of time.
And taking into account the less complicated kind of argumentation of those opinionated responses,
we gain a more rounded picture of Adam as a reader, gradually evolving from pupil itch to antenna, at each stage leaving some traces and margins involved, and love taking charge.
The publishers of all the books that you have on top of your sheet were the products of the century between 1884 or 1882.
When I was first studying his work, he did so by the traditional methods of making a heading page and copying extracts into a column.
It is clear from his diary that he has his troubles concentrating, so he used conventional study techniques in order to improve himself.
He founds in his early diary like a hearteningly normal young man, though one that has standards when he laments.
My thoughts are roving from girls to friends, from friends to court to Worcester, to Yankee and Uber Eats.
Could I fix my attention and keep off every fluttering thought and attempt to truth on the subject?
I could read a book all day.
In sending the diary to a new resolution,
I began to read the spirit of the laws and have resolved to read that work through in order and with attention.
And I have hit upon a project that will secure my attention to it, which is, three guests, to write in a margin a sort of index to every paragraph.
This sort of index to every paragraph translates into the headings and short sentences that are actually mentioned but did not include in his transcription.
In his many years of legal practice, Adams obtained similar procedures for careful study.
Though in 1761, he was still complaining that, though amid his participation, business, plagiaric conversation, intrigue, party, et cetera, what a moral can give attention to an old life in the Institute of Accounting Law?
Or more probably, because he was still finding a hard focus.
He kept a reading journal for Hale's History of the Community Crown.
And soon he proceeded with other books that he had to work with professionally, moving back and forth between the margins and notebooks, writing heads in the books and storing extracts in the notes.
We can see from the copy of Wollstonecraft's History of the French Revolution that the discipline of writing headings on purpose of serious study and assimilation was still living in 1790.
The early sevens of free-range action recorded by Hirashti in a small book of notes that Adams made in the late 1750s or early 1760s in a copy of John Winthrop's lecture on Earthquakes.
This book, the work of one of Adams' horror instructors, was a gift from a friend.
Adams wrote a note at the end, carrying his own views on the controversy about all of the Earthquakes.
People thought they came from Canada.
Like your bad weather.
So he declared his own opinions, and he engaged in some upgrading, recording further at Earthquake in 1761.
These interventions, though more personal than the study notes, are still relatively restrained.
I didn't hear the political activism statement.
served as testing grounds for his own arguments, and his marginalia seemed to have become freer and more expressive.
In France in 1784, he read a letter from Chagot to the radical British thinker, Richard Price, which excited him to make extensive marginal comments and eventually to propose his own defense of the constitutions of America in 1787.
Writing notes clarified his thinking and helped him to articulate his ideas.
I don't see it, however, as if it is of a lover's quarrel, one of the professional activity akin to drafting a position.
Before he started work on his defense, he led the elevated bottom price to Ben and Frank, who had the notes transcribed into his own copy of the book.
Early evidence, both of Adam's willingness to share his notes, and of the favorable reception we were likely to receive among his postcards.
Adam similarly had a copy of his own discourses on novellas, to Mr. Coleman of Hymn, who he reportedly had had in almost a year, but had eventually returned in December of 1814.
Circumstances changed again when Adam was returning, which is a phase in which all notes on the handout were written.
well, the great aggression on every time I am in this game, but I want to get in and those that I find particularly touching.
In a book on the influence of the passion of human happiness, that was read some chapter 1796, as the author, Melanie Stahl, points that for her people usually find it to leave a position of power.
But she gives a few illustrious examples of extra women who managed to do it.
And Adams proposes an addition.
This is what he said.
The example of Washington will be known in the future.
Books and agriculture may fill the mine.
That was certainly an unrest before successful retirement.
When you consider a few of Adam's books relatively seeking to take notes in his hand,
and observe that of the interesting published notes, perhaps 75% were written after 1800 and very few before 1790, we may wonder whether he did not come to see his commentary on these books, which he did not encounter in the first time, whether he did not come to see his commentary on these books as part of an intellectual legacy along with the publications of his earlier years.
In the same period, we know he hadn't took to write his own biography, though that scheme was eventually abandoned.
He published a series of letters of the Boston Patriot in what David McCullough refers to as his last passionate exercise in self-justification.
And he shared reflections and reminiscences of the Czechoslovakian memoirs for us.
He was in retrospective mode.
I'm not claiming that this was necessarily a systematic project.
The fact that more notes of the expensive kind belong to the years of Adams' retirement could be accounted for simply by his having had more time left for this enjoyable activity.
And yet he must have known that he was leaving a record of his conviction on important political and religious concerns.
So enjoyment could go hand in hand with a sense of purpose.
It is remarkable, too, how much of all kinds the books that Adams chose to write in were, mainly
Expectations of godless rationalists from whom Adams might well have found the need to distance him from.
This possibility merits further investigation.
Understanding that Adams' marginalia, unlike our own, were meant to be a theme, should be a further incentive to get them out into the public domain, probably what he wants.
that Adam's books are more fully cataloged, more accurately described, and that the annotated pages are digitized and transcribed to complement other online Adam's project, it will be much easier for scholars to take stock of Adam's marginally and to see that he put his books, none of them anyway, to work in a variety of ways in the several stages of a long and big life.
To the extent that the marginalia can be dated, and while they were not separated from others in the same volume, scholars will be able to map these readings and re-reading of the chronology of the book.
The Lord Sandler, including the reader, coined the prevention of the book, so that he took advantage of pretty well all the options available to him, writing, adding, copying, adding supplementary material, and making a summary, like the diligence of the promise of the book.
Writing illustrative comedy, like a British pen to share with friends and colleagues.
Keeping records for posterity, like Horace Wilder, fighting back against British ideas like John Hornet Hook and William Blake.
Thanks to advanced publicity by a prison critic, I knew before I ever laid hands on one of Adams' books that he was good at writing notes, but I had not perceived that he could stand in an epitheree of the customs of his age, given the range and flexibility of his library.
About the only thing he seemed never to have done was to compile a personal index in the back of the book.
A better understanding of what Adams was up to in his form of writing can only enrich the historical record.
Scholarship and custodianship, the example of Adams' Mordinaria gives his admirers a new opportunity, something that looks to the future as well as to the past.
And that is, by these means or others, to turn ourselves into the kind of real evil, engaged, tentative, skeptical, unfairness.
Tomorrow?
Sure.
We've now come to the end of the paper, obviously, and if you have questions about the whole thing or any of that you wonder about, please, I'll try to remember to repeat.
Yes.
With Adams, did you find much evidence of a third reading where he would edit his own and change his mind?
That's a good question.
Did I find much evidence of a third or later reading in which he annotated his own annotations or changed his mind?
Yes, definitely.
Definitely more than three or more readings.
And what he tends to do is to add a note, sometimes daily.
So he will say, very true in 1794, and then he will say, still true in 1800.
Very nice question, yes.
As I say, there really was no inhibition of other people's, you know, what's it about through other people's ant, and I hope that other people have ant.
It's a little bit hard in this library, I mean we don't separate, we're not yet in the state in which we can separate out all those hymns.
So our primary job would be to separate out earlier owners and later ones.
So because these books stay with the family for quite a long time.
So some of the notes, some of them have inscriptions by later members of the family, John Quincy helps, for instance.
And actually one more thing, I find it very, it's always particularly difficult to know about marks.
You know, sometimes marks are really important.
You know, when you work with one author, what he typically does.
But if there were these little, in the book about earthquakes, for instance, there are some little pencil lines and crawls.
And I don't know whether those are his or not.
He doesn't have a lot.
Of course he doesn't have a lot.
Yeah.
Do the notes reflect his station in life or the stages in life, particularly difficult periods like his falling out of a jet.
um these are really not when we we see them as an expression of personality i don't think he saw them that way i think he didn't so that he he was probably trying to avoid very personal personal revelation and i haven't really read enough of them to say for sure whether he said anything nasty about jefferson i think not there are
There are books in which he's recorded places with affection, places that he visited with you.
And this may be partly because, as I said, so many of the books that are annotated with this, the word in way, were annotated after 1800 and after he resumed his friendship.
A lot of it sounds like an extension of his diary, which is really a kind of intellectual diary, if you will.
And then he's writing always with posterity over his shoulder.
And he never writes down a paper.
But the real difference between these notes and a true diary is they're not dated.
which must be very frustrating because you don't know when he said so.
Sometimes not even within decades.
So that's the real difference.
You can't show a progression or a response to certain events.
It's just out there in a space with no time attack.
Well, not entirely.
And for instance, well, let it be 79, 4, 1800.
Yes, too.
But what happened where he
say something that he wants strongly to endorse, he will date it.
And then again, you can roughly date things.
For instance, an oath account had been made before the book was published.
So, you know, that's a story.
It's really quite important.
The Count of Annunziata before was published quite often, he wrote in the name of an ownership inscription with a date.
So that shows when he acquired it.
And then you can look at the opening that you have a picture of, you can look at the hat.
That's less reliable.
But you can see a difference between the hand that he used in his head in the Wollstonecraft book and say confidently for the other books for me and later.
But there might have been two of the years of other novels, 1796 and 1812.
But it is not impossible.
Did you have a question?
You mentioned, you're not noticing non-fiction.
I know he also likes to read the written.
Were there any annotations that were her favorite poems or passages?
Very little.
And I think I find this generally fiction not very much annotated in the period, unless you were doing it to the guy's poor friend.
So instead of reading the book,
with a friend, particularly someone who lives far away, for instance, you could send the book with your notes in it.
That would be like talking to your friend about the book.
But I think fiction is not very often annotated, and that's a reason why people assume you agree that only one.
What about letter?
Have you seen similar annotations in letters, or are they confined to the book?
Well, I only look at books.
Do you want to follow up on that?
I'm currently reading the collected letters from Adams and Adams from Jefferson, and that's my question.
I'm wondering if he or other authors of the period limited their position to the book or perhaps a character to the letters that they have made.
Well, let's have everybody work with letters.
People tend to letters, those also circulate.
So there were, you know, really confidential letters practically well known once you send it out.
And that's why letters are such a sophisticated form of writing.
You know it's going to be a show around when you've got to get it right.
So probably if everybody should, they might wait
I don't know what rubbish in the margin, or where I defend, or something like that.
And more often would you get on the letters of just the sort of practical dot received on such and such.
But I don't know about Adam's done anything.
Practically everyone in this room knows what happened now.
Although I'm hanging through his boats with me.
I like it.
Yes.
Was Adam able to read his books in any language such as German, Latin or Greek?
Certainly Latin, certainly French.
Dutch.
He... Dutch.
He intentionally copies out Greek words.
So he had a trade in Greek, up to a certain point, but I don't have any Greek choice.
But certainly Dutch, French and Latin.
Yes, of course, Judge.
You tell me.
I was wondering if you find that if your nation showed up at the right side of your personality, it perfectly could not be criticized at all times because of the way the ownership was not changing for generations or so?
Did everyone hear the question?
No.
Jonathan Martinaglia revealed a lighter side of his personality which would have been concealed from his contemporaries outside of town.